Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Committee met on December 15-16, 2009. Financial market conditions remained supportive of economic growth, though volatility in securities markets increased notably toward the end of the intermeeting period. Year-end funding pressures were minimal. No market strains had appeared as a result of the imminent closing, on February 1, of most of the Federal Reserve's special liquidity facilities. The Manager also reported on System open market operations in agency debt and agency MBS during the intermeeting period. The Desk continued to gradually slow the pace of its purchases of these securities as it moved toward completing the Committee's program of asset purchases by March 31. The Desk also continued to engage in dollar roll transactions in agency MBS securities to facilitate settlement of its outright purchases. The Federal Reserve's total assets remained a bit above $2.2 trillion, as the increase in the System's holdings of securities was almost entirely offset by a further decline in usage of the System's credit and liquidity facilities. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's transactions. Participants agreed that the Desk should continue the interim approach of not reinvesting the proceeds of maturing or prepaid agency securities and MBS held by the Federal Reserve. The Desk had continued to reinvest the proceeds of maturing Treasury securities by acquiring newly auctioned Treasury securities issued on the same day its existing holdings matured; participants agreed that the Desk should continue this practice for now, but the Committee would consider further its policy for redeeming or reinvesting maturing Treasury securities. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period.Staff briefed the Committee on current usage of the discount window and other liquidity facilities and suggested additional steps policymakers could take to normalize the Federal Reserve's liquidity provision. These steps included continuing to scale back amounts offered through the Term Auction Facility (TAF); returning to the pre-crisis standard of one-day maturity for primary credit loans to all but the smallest depository institutions; and increasing, initially to 50 basis points from 25 basis points, the spread between the primary credit rate and the upper end of the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate. Setting the spread reflects a balance between two objectives: encouraging depository institutions to use the discount window as a backup source of liquidity when they are faced with temporary liquidity shortfalls or when funding markets are disrupted, and discouraging depository institutions from relying on the discount window as a routine source of funds when other funding is generally available. The spread was 100 basis points before the financial crisis emerged; the Federal Reserve narrowed the spread to 50 basis points and then to 25 basis points as part of its response to the financial crisis. Participants judged that improvements in bank funding markets warranted reducing amounts offered at TAF auctions toward zero in three steps over the next few months, while noting that they would be prepared to modify that plan if necessary to support financial stability and economic growth. They agreed that it would soon be appropriate to return the maturity of primary credit loans to overnight and to widen the spread between the primary credit rate and the top of the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate. Several participants noted that the optimal spread could depend, in part, on the Committee's eventual decisions about the most suitable approach to implementing U.S. monetary policy over the longer term. Participants generally agreed that such steps to return the Federal Reserve's liquidity provision to a normal footing would be technical adjustments to reflect the notable diminution of the market strains that had made the creation of new liquidity facilities and expansion of existing facilities necessary and emphasized that such steps would not indicate a change in the Committee's assessment of the appropriate stance of monetary policy or the proper time to begin moving to a less accommodative policy stance.