Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Committee met on January 26-27, 2010. The net effect of these developments was that financial conditions had become modestly more supportive of economic growth. No market strains emerged in conjunction with the Federal Reserve's closing of nearly all of its remaining special liquidity facilities over the intermeeting period. On February 1, the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, and the Term Securities Lending Facility were closed, and the Federal Reserve's temporary currency swap lines with foreign central banks expired. Financial markets also adjusted smoothly to the final offering of funds through the Term Auction Facility on March 8.The Manager noted that securitized credit markets had not shown substantial strain from the anticipated end of new credit extensions under the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), which was scheduled to close on June 30 for loans backed by new-issue commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) and on March 31 for loans backed by all other types of collateral.1Spreads on asset-backed securities remained tight while issuance--the bulk of which was being financed outside of TALF--continued to be fairly strong. While the cumulative volume of borrowing from the TALF had expanded fairly steadily in recent months, the volume of repayments of TALF loans had also risen as borrowers were able to secure funding from other sources on more favorable terms. As a result, the net amount of outstanding TALF credit had leveled out and would likely decline going forward as a result of continuing repayments.In his report on System open market operations, the Manager noted that over the period since the Committee had met in January, the Federal Reserve's total assets had risen to about $2.3 trillion, as an increase in the System's holdings of securities was partly offset by the declining usage of the System's credit and liquidity facilities. The Desk continued to gradually slow the pace of its purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and agency debt as it moved toward completing the Committee's previously announced asset purchases by the end of March. The Desk's purchases of agency MBS were on track to meet the targeted amount of $1.25 trillion, while its purchases of agency debt would likely cumulate to slightly less than $175 billion. The Desk continued to engage in dollar roll transactions in agency MBS securities to facilitate settlement of its outright purchases. There were no open market operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's transactions. Participants also agreed that the Desk should continue the interim approach of allowing all maturing agency debt and all prepayments of agency MBS to be redeemed without replacement.In addition, the Manager reported on recent progress in the development of reserve draining tools, including the initiation of a program for expanding the set of counterparties in conducting reverse repurchase agreements, and the staff gave a presentation on potential approaches for tightening the link between short-term market interest rates and the interest rate paid on reserve balances held at the Federal Reserve Banks.