I wish to thank the New America Foundation, the Center for Financial Security, and the Congressional Savings and Ownership Caucus for the invitation to speak at this important conference addressing the savings and credit needs of Americans as our economy recovers. It is a pleasure to be here with you today.As the mother of three teenagers who are struggling toward adulthood--always two steps forward and one step back, or perhaps a couple steps sideways--I inevitably think about economic inclusion from the standpoint of young people entering the workforce and the adult economy. And so I ask myself: What does it mean for them to be included in the economy?Well, obviously I want them to be able to find satisfying, meaningful, and decently compensated work. Surely this is as much a marker of the transition to adulthood in our society as registering to vote or earning the all-important driver's license. We might say that we are not truly included in the economy until we draw our first paycheck. One of the tragedies of our current lingering recession is that so many young Americans have not been able to experience the thrilling rite of passage that comes with finding a stable and decent-paying job. And, of course, even beyond the young, there are millions of Americans stuck in unemployment lines desperate to find a way back into the productive economy.The question of employment is not our focus today, but we should pause to underscore the promotion-of-maximum-employment imperative of the Federal Reserve's dual mandate. I believe that this imperative has broad importance in American social and economic life.But economic inclusion also implies a kind of belonging and membership in the economy that goes beyond employment. In the financial and regulatory world, "economic inclusion" refers to efforts to expand public access to, and participation in, mainstream financial services. This effective inclusion in the financial marketplace depends upon a strong regulatory framework, active market participation, and an expansion in public financial literacy. For the sake of clarity, I will call this meaning "financial inclusion," and proceed on the assumption that it is indispensably important to effective navigation of the twists and turns of life in the American economy. Imagine what it would be like, even with a job, if you had no access to banking or credit; if you did not understand how mortgages or credit cards work; or if you had no way to save a portion of your earnings. Sadly, there are millions of Americans lingering in these margins.In my remarks today, I will share my perspective on why broad inclusion matters to our economic recovery, the challenges that current economic conditions present to the efforts of lower-income Americans to participate in the economy, and the risks we face as a country if we understate or misunderstand these challenges.Who is Being Excluded?Let's first try to scope who is at risk of being economically excluded. We start with the unemployed. The latest employment report issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics was bleak.1U.S. employers in May added only 54,000 non-farm jobs, down from 232,000 jobs added in April. The headline unemployment rate was 9.1 percent in May, representing about 13.9 million Americans out of work.Unfortunately, the headline unemployment numbers don't fully capture the true scope of the unemployment problem. There are an additional 8.5 million workers who are "part-time-of-necessity" or "underemployed" because their hours have been cut back or they are unable to find a full-time job; there are also 