ShareA little over three years ago, Lehman Brothers ignited the dry tinder of a badly overleveraged financial system that was too dependent on continuous, significant increases in housing prices and too opaque for supervisors, investors, analysts, and often participants themselves to understand. As one would expect of a truly systemic crisis, there were many contributing factors--the prevailing statutory framework for financial regulation, supervisory practices, and the risk-management practices of financial actors. And, as one would thus expect, the reform agenda has itself also been multi-dimensional.For all the regulatory changes that are in place, in process, or under consideration, however, I believe that capital regulation remains the single most important element of prudential financial regulation. Let me immediately elaborate upon that statement in two ways. First, capital regulation itself must be multi-dimensional and rigorous in each of its components. Second, while strong capital regulation is necessary for a sound financial system, it is not, on its own, sufficient. In my remarks this afternoon, I will concentrate on the first of these points and discuss how capital regulation reform is evolving in the wake of the crisis.Evolution and Shortcomings of Capital RegulationAlthough they had long used bank capital ratios as a supervisory instrument, U.S. bank regulators did not impose explicit minimum capital requirements until the 1980s. The proximate reason for this change was regulatory concern over the decline in capital ratios of the largest banks--a concern reinforced by Congress, as it saw some of those large banks facing enormous losses on their loans to foreign sovereigns. Within a few years this U.S. regulatory innovation was effectively internationalized by the original Basel Accord.At the same time, regulators came to regard capital requirements as a supple prudential tool. As activity and affiliation restrictions were loosened in the United States, capital requirements seemed a promising way to protect the public's interest in the stability of financial institutions that had access to the Federal Reserve's discount window and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance. Capital requirements promised to provide a buffer against bank losses fromanyactivities in which the bank or its affiliates might engage, a consideration of equal or greater relevance in countries with universal banking models. Some support also developed for the proposition that minimum capital levels could, by maintaining a material equity value for the bank, serve as a disincentive for excessive risk-taking by management and shareholders.In the ensuing quarter century, banking regulators around the world focused considerable attention toward elaborating capital requirements to reflect more precisely the particular risks faced by a financial institution. Capital requirements had, to a considerable extent, become the dominant prudential regulatory tool.The financial crisis showed that this concentrated, almost all-consuming regulatory focus on refining bank capital requirements in Basel II had come at the expense of attention to other risks in the financial system. In particular, banking regulators failed to appreciate fully the implications of the growth--in size, leverage, and maturity transformation levels--of the shadow banking system for the balance sheets of commercial banks and for overall financial stability. The crisis showed that liquidity problems can be an independent source of severe stress, perhaps even for firms that might otherwise have remained solvent.But it was also evident that the specifics of pre-crisis capital regulation fell far short of what this prudential instrument can achieve. The Basel I and Basel II capital requirements relied almost exclusively on capital ratios that were essentially snapshots of balance sheets and thus all too often a lagging indicator of a bank's condition. Declines in asset values--particularly of non-traded assets--were often not reflected in capital calculations for some time. Though already well-known before the crisis, this phenomenon was particularly problematic as asset values declined rapidly, causing both markets and supervisors alike to regard regulatory capital ratios as providing only limited information about a firm's current financial condition.In addition, minimum capital levels had simply been set too low, in general and with respect to particular assets. One of the most obvious examples was the capital requirement for asset-backed securities in the trading books of banks. The requirement was based on returns over a 10-day holding period, used a one-year observation period that had been characterized by unusually low price volatility, and did not adequately account for the credit risks inherent in these traded instruments.Furthermore, at least some of the instruments that qualified as "Tier 1 capital" for regulatory purposes were not reliable buffers against losses, at least not on a going concern basis. It is instructive that during the height of the crisis, counterparties and other market actors looked almost exclusively to the amount of tangible common equity held by financial institutions in evaluating the creditworthiness and overall stability of those institutions. They essentially ignored the Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios in regulatory requirements. In the fall of 2008, there was widespread doubt in markets that the common equity of some of our largest institutions was sufficient to withstand the losses that those firms appeared to be facing. This doubt made investors and counterparties increasingly reluctant to deal with those firms, contributing to the severe liquidity strains that characterized financial markets at the time.Finally, the crisis validated the concerns expressed by some academics and by policy staff at the Bank for International Settlements that the effectiveness of capital regulation was limited by its exclusively microprudential focus. Capital requirements had been set with reference solely to the balance sheet of a specific firm. The risk weights assigned to the firm's assets were calculated with reference to ordinary times, whether through a supervisory determination or a combination of supervisory formulas and a firm's own modeling. This microprudential focus did not take into account the potential impact of a shock to the value of widely-held assets--whether exogenous, caused by the distress sales of such assets by a large firm suffering particularly severe problems, or, as in the financial crisis, a lethal interaction between these two factors.The limits of the microprudential approach were particularly evident with respect to very large, interconnected firms. There would be very substantial negative externalities associated with the disorderly failure of any such firm, distinct from the costs incurred by the firm and its stakeholders. The failure of one large firm, especially in a period of stress, significantly increases the chances that other financial firms will fail, for two reasons. First, direct counterparty impacts can lead to a classic domino effect. Second, because losses in a tail event are much more likely to be correlated for firms deeply engaged in trading, structured products, and other capital market instruments, all such firms are vulnerable to accelerating losses as troubled firms sell their assets into a declining market.Reform of Capital Regulation in the Post-Crisis PeriodIt is obvious that the post-crisis regulatory system will not be as dependent on capital requirements as the pre-crisis regime. Dodd-Frank itself is testimony to this fact, as are a number of changes already made by the bank regulatory agencies. There is now increased emphasis on market discipline, liquidity regulation, activities restrictions, and more effective supervision, in addition to capital requirements. Reforms for money market funds and the triparty repo market, as well as more general attention to wholesale funding models for financial intermediation, are still needed. But the crisis reinforces the point that robust capital requirements should continue to be a central component of the financial regulatory system. The U.S. banking agencies made reform of the capital regime a high priority.In response to the shortcomings of the pre-crisis capital regulatory regime, there have been three complementary threads of reform. First is improvement of the traditional, individual-firm approach to capital regulation. This strand mostly originates in the work of the Basel Committee. Basel 2.5 revised and strengthened the market risk requirements of Basel II. Basel III upgraded the quality and increased the quantity of minimum capital requirements, created a capital conservation buffer, and introduced an international leverage ratio requirement.Second is the introduction of a macroprudential component of capital regulation. Although Basel III does contain a few features responsive to macroprudential concerns, it remains principally microprudential. This second thread is linked both to the requirement in section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act for enhanced risk-based capital standards for large bank holding companies and to the Basel Committee's effort to develop a framework for the assessment of a capital surcharge based on the global systemic importance of the largest, most interconnected banking organizations.Third is establishment of regular stress testing and capital planning. These complementary supervisory tools serve two related functions. First, they make capital regulation more forward-looking by subtracting losses in asset values and earnings estimated to be sustained in an adverse macroeconomic scenario, in order to determine whether firms would have enough capital to remain viable financial intermediaries. Second, they contribute to the macroprudential dimension of capital regulation by examining simultaneously the risks of all large financial institutions in the face of the adverse scenario. This reform thread is sourced in the Dodd-Frank requirement for stress testing at large banks, but more generally in the Federal Reserve's establishment of a formal annual capital planning requirement for these firms.The development and implementation of these three threads of capital reform are at different stages, so it may be useful to review where each stands. As to the first--improving the traditional, individual-firm approach to capital regulation--Basel 2.5 and Basel III are important steps forward, both internationally and domestically. In addition, the so-called "Collins amendment" in Dodd-Frank requires that banking organizations maintain capital at levels no lower than those set by "generally applicable" requirements, which include a standardized approach to risk-weighting. In practice, the Collins amendment provides a safeguard against declines in minimum capital requirements in a capital regime based on internal modeling.The Basel Committee completed work on Basel 2.5 and Basel III in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Implementation of these two frameworks into national legislation or regulations is underway in the jurisdictions represented on the committee.1Two issues concerning implementation in the United States bear mentioning. First, while U.S. bank regulatory agencies have published a proposed regulation for the new market risk capital requirements, we did not include the trading book securitization and resecuritization portions of Basel 2.5, which are supposed to take effect in 201