It is a real pleasure for me to have the opportunity to speak to community bankers at this annual Community Bankers Symposium sponsored jointly by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). I know that many of you are concerned about the banking agencies' recent proposals to revise the capital rules, the so-called Basel III proposals.1So I will start my remarks with an update on those proposals. Then I will move to a more detailed discussion of some data that I have found interesting as I have been thinking about the effect of regulations as they relate to residential mortgage lending.Before I begin, I want to assure you that all of my colleagues on the Board of Governors, including the Chairman, are concerned about the effect of regulation on community bank lending. In fact, we have established a subcommittee of the Board, which I chair, to focus on the supervision and regulation of community and small regional banks. In addition, we have established a Community Depository Institution Advisory Council (CDIAC) made up of community banks, thrifts, and credit unions to advise the Board about issues facing smaller institutions.2But I want to also be clear that any opinions I express today are my own and may not reflect those of other members of the Board.Regulatory Capital Proposals Let me turn now to the capital proposals. As we enter the final deliberative phase of this rulemaking, I want to emphasize that the feedback we have received during the comment period has been extremely valuable and that we will work very hard to address your concerns in the final rules. Also, I would like to address the specific concern expressed by some bankers that these rules will be effective January 1, 2013, forcing them to potentially make changes with little preparation. We have received a large number of comments and want to closely consider each issue. Therefore, the agencies this morning announced that we do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013.3Further, the agencies offered the assurance that institutions will have time for transition once the rules are effective.Before the proposals were issued, our staff of economists and analysts conducted research to estimate the potential impact of the proposed rules. Their analysis indicated that the vast majority of community banks would already meet the new standards. Nevertheless, it was critically important to hear directly from community banks to better understand how individual institutions and their business plans might be affected by the proposals.Admittedly, the capital proposals were quite lengthy and in many cases applied only to the largest banking organizations. So, for the first time in a regulatory proposal that I'm aware of, short summaries were added to the capital proposals to explain more clearly which aspects were likely to affect community banks. The objective was to spare community bankers from having to wade through the many elements of the proposals that would apply almost exclusively to the largest institutions, and to encourage them to comment on those elements of the proposals most likely to affect their institutions. Judging from the number of comments we received from community banks, I would conclude that the summaries were at least somewhat helpful, and I hope that this innovation will become a standard part of large regulatory proposals in the future.We expected the summaries to make a difference in the volume and detail of the responses we received, but still we weren't content to just issue the proposals and wait for comments. So the Federal Reserve planned a systematic effort to solicit and understand the views of community banks, one that has been more comprehensive than any I have seen in my time at the Board.We launched these efforts at the Board's public meeting on June 7 of this year, when the capital proposals were approved and we began accepting comments. At that meeting, I reiterated my support for strong levels of high-quality capital in banks of all sizes, including community banks.4The large number of community banks that failed over the past several years as a result of problems in their real estate loan portfolios has highlighted the importance of having a strong cushion of loss-absorbing capital. However, I also emphasized the importance of getting the details of the proposals right. I encouraged community banks, therefore, to submit comments on the proposals to help us understand the costs that revisions to the capital framework could add for smaller banks and the changes to their businesses that might result.This summer we held a series of "Ask the Fed" sessions aimed primarily at banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve to provide an overview of the proposals, answer questions, and receive feedback. More than 3,000 bankers participated in these sessions, via teleconference or in person. We later summarized some of the most common questions that our staff received in an article in the first issue of Community Banking Connections, a new Federal Reserve publication specifically for community bankers.5Board members and staff have also been meeting directly with various industry groups, including state bankers' associations, to hear their views on the proposals.After the proposals had been out for a couple of months, a number of parties, including many community bankers, requested more time to analyze the proposals prior to submitting comment letters. As a result, the agencies decided to extend the original 90-day comment period by an additional 45 days.6Also in response to requests, in September, the agencies made available a tool to help community banking organizations and others estimate the potential impact of the capital proposals on their regulatory capital ratios.7We received more than 2,000 comment letters during the consultative period, which we are in the process of posting to the Board's public website. Our staff is currently reviewing each and every one of those letters. We take these comments very seriously, and we will be working with our colleagues at the OCC and FDIC to understand and analyze the many issues that have been raised.We heard many different concerns during our outreach efforts, but there were some recurring themes, including: the complexity of the proposed changes, the operational costs that would be incurred to track data that are not currently needed to calculate capital ratios, the potential impact on mortgage lending of the proposed mortgage risk weights, the accelerated phase-out of trust preferred securities from tier 1 capital, and the potential volatility in regulatory capital arising from the inclusion of unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities.It's still far too early in the process to know where we and the other agencies are going to come out on these and other issues, or when final rules may be released. But what I can promise you is that before we issue final capital rules, we will do everything possible to address the concerns that have been expressed by community banks and still achieve the goal of having strong levels of high-quality capital--built up over a reasonable and realistic transitional period--in banks of all sizes, including community banks.As we met with bankers and listened to them describe the threat to their role in residential mortgage lending posed by the proposed mortgage risk weightings, I realized that we had very little data about mortgages on the books of community banks. Much of our research has focused on securitized loans. So I set out to learn more about residential lending in smaller institutions, and as I did, it became clear to me that there are regulatory issues that go far beyond those raised in the capital proposals. I am now concerned that, even if the specific issues in the capital proposals can be addressed, the totality of new mortgage lending regulations might still seriously impair the ability of community banks to continue to offer their traditional mortgage products. In fact, in our discussions with community bankers, more of them report that they are reducing or eliminating their mortgage lending due to regulatory burden than report that they are entering or expanding their mortgage business in response to the business potential of low mortgage rates. I think this represents a real concern, both for mortgage availability and for the viability of community banking.Community Banks and Mortgage Lending When I think about community banks, I usually envision a bank, thrift, or credit union that serves customers in one or more well-defined local markets and that is engaged in a traditional community banking model--making a variety of loans and funding itself primarily with local core deposits. At the Federal Reserve, we generally define our community bank portfolio as those institutions with $10 billion or less in total assets, which is the definition I will use in this discussion.In evaluating the effect of regulation on community banks, I divide the potential burden into three categories: (1) additional operational costs associated with compliance; (2)restrictions on fees, interest rates, or other forms of revenue; and (3) unintentional barriers to offering a service that are a result of regulatory complexity. Each of these effects is of some concern, but to me the most disturbing is the third category. If the effect of a regulation is to make a traditional banking service so complicated or expensive that significant numbers of community banks believe they can no longer offer that service, it should raise red flags and spur policymakers to reassess whether the potential benefits of the regulation outweigh the potential loss of community banks' participation in that part of the market. Unfortunately, my discussions with community bankers lead me to believe that we might be approaching that point with residential mortgage lending regulation.I have thought a lot about how we have come to this point. I think it is because both the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) and its implementing regulations attempt to avoid a repeat of the lending abuses that were identified in the crisis by using characteristics that were common in subprime lending as proxies for identification of problematic loans. While this is an understandable approach given the abuses in subprime lending, it fails to recognize that many of these same characteristics, such as higher interest rates or balloon payments, also are key aspects of traditional community bank portfolio lending. But, as I will discuss later, these features in community bank lending do not appear to have resulted in nearly the level of borrower stress that was prevalent in subprime loans.Community banks have long been a source of loans that, for a variety of reasons, do not fit the parameters of conforming government-sponsored enterprise loans or eligibility for government-guaranteed programs. Community banks typically hold these loans on their own balance sheets. They use higher interest rates to compensate for the lack of liquidity in these loans or to cover higher processing costs because community banks lack economies of scale, and they use balloon payments as a simple way to limit their interest-rate risk. To the extent that regulations require additional operational procedures for such loans that are prohibitively expensive, raise the liability associated with making them, or create capital requirements that are out of proportion to the riskiness of the loans, community banks could be closed out of these products altogether.How concerned should we be if community banks start pulling out of mortgage lending? To answer this, I think it is important to answer three more fundamental questions. First, how important is community bank lending to the overall mortgage market? Second, how important is mortgage lending to the community banking model? And third, are there any indications that community bank lending poses the same risks as the subprime lending that shared many of the same characteristics?How important is community bank lending to the overall mortgage market?One of the advantages of working at the Federal Reserve is having access to what I believe is one of the finest research staffs anywhere. Because of the Federal Reserve's role in the economy and financial stability, we have teams of top-notch economists and financial analysts to help policymakers reach the best possible understanding of economic and financial trends. But they are equally valuable in assessing the effects of regulatory policy. So I asked Federal Reserve staff to examine available data to try to come up with answers to my questions about mortgage lending and community banks. I would like to share with you the answers they uncovered.Analysis of annual data on home lending reported pursuant to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) provides insight into the role of community banks in the mortgage market.8As you may know, HMDA requires banking institutions, credit unions, and mortgage companies with offices in metropolitan areas to report details about the applications they receive and the loans they extend each year.9To investigate the role of community banks in the home lending market and to foster a more detailed understanding of mortgage lending within the broad group of community banks, our staff sorted lending institutions in HMDA into three asset size categories: smaller community banks with assets under $500 million, larger community banks with assets between $500 million and $10 billion, and large banks with assets of more than $10 billion. For the analysis, all affiliated entities were combined and treated as a single organization.The HMDA data indicate that community banks account for a significant fraction of total home loan originations each year. Smaller community banks account for about 5 percent of the originations annually and larger community banks an additional 13 percent.10Credit unions, which are nearly all small, now account for an additional 7percent of home loan originations. Thus, taken together, community banks and credit unions accounted for one-quarter of the new origination market in 201