ShareLet me begin by thanking President Lockhart and the organizers of the Financial Markets Conference for inviting me to speak here again this year. I have participated regularly in this conference and have always found it stimulating.Four years ago, in remarks at this very conference, I described the 2009 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, or SCAP, popularly known as the bank stress tests.1The SCAP marked the first time the U.S. bank regulatory agencies had conducted a supervisory stress test simultaneously across the largest banking firms.2At the time of my 2009 speech, we had just published the results of the SCAP and were still evaluating its effects. In retrospect, the SCAP stands out for me as one of the critical turning points in the financial crisis. It provided anxious investors with something they craved: credible information about prospective losses at banks. Supervisors' public disclosure of the stress test results helped restore confidence in the banking system and enabled its successful recapitalization. The resilience of the U.S. banking system has greatly improved since then, and the more intensive use and greater sophistication of supervisory stress testing, as well as supervisors' increased emphasis on the effectiveness of banks' own capital planning processes, deserve some credit for that improvement.I will begin today with a brief discussion of the state of U.S. banking. I will then turn to the subject of what we have learned about stress testing in the four years since the SCAP, with a focus on the increasingly central role it is playing in bank supervision in the United States. Importantly, as I will elaborate, stress testing adds a macroprudential dimension to our supervision by helping us evaluate the aggregate capital position of the largest banking firms as well as their individual capital levels.The Federal Reserve--like all bureaucracies--has an unfortunate tendency to create acronyms, so, before I proceed further, let me explain our acronyms, in addition to SCAP, for stress tests. With the SCAP now in the past, we currently have two distinct but related supervisory programs that rely on stress testing. The first is the stress testing required by the Dodd-Frank Act, which we have shortened to the acronym DFAST--the Dodd-Frank Act stress tests. The purpose of DFAST is to quantitatively assess how bank capital levels would fare in stressful economic and financial scenarios. The second program, called the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR, combines the quantitative results from the stress tests with more-qualitative assessments of the capital planning processes used by banks. For example, under CCAR, supervisors evaluate the ability of banks to model losses for various categories of loans and securities and to estimate earnings and capital requirements in alternative scenarios. We recently completed the first set of DFAST stress tests and disclosed the results, followed a week later by the disclosure of our CCAR findings, which included our qualitative assessments of firms' capital planning.3The State of the Banking System, Then and NowTo provide context for the developments in the banking system since the introduction of the SCAP in early 2009, it's worth briefly recalling the economic situation that prevailed at that time. The economy was in deep recession, with the unemployment rate having risen 4 percentage points, from 5 percent to 9 percent, over the preceding 12 months. The prices of real estate and equities had plummeted, interest rate spreads--such as the spread between rates on mortgages and Treasury securities--had widened to unprecedented levels, and securitization markets had frozen. Write-downs and losses continued to deplete banks' capital, unnerving investors and counterparties and exacerbating the severe funding pressures faced by many institutions. In the face of this instability, in 2008 and 2009 policymakers had taken a range of extraordinary measures: The Federal Reserve supplied liquidity to banks and other financial institutions, helping to calm the panic and begin the process of restoring the flow of credit to households and businesses; the Treasury Department guaranteed money market funds and injected capital into banks under the Troubled Asset Relief Program; the Congress expanded deposit insurance under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); and the FDIC guaranteed banks' issuance of long-term debt. And, as I noted, the SCAP helped to increase confidence in the banking system and restore banks' access to private capital markets. Ten of the 19 large bank holding companies that underwent the SCAP were required to raise equity capital--by $75 billion in total.Today the economy is significantly stronger than it was four years ago, although conditions are clearly still far from where we would all like them to be. Because bank credit for households and businesses is critical to continued economic expansion, it is positive for the recovery that banks are also notably stronger than they were a few years ago. For example, premiums on bank credit default swaps have fallen by more than half of their 2009 levels, and other measures of bank risk have also declined substantially. More than 90 percent of the public capital injections that were used to stabilize the banking system have been repaid, and the Federal Reserve's extraordinary liquidity programs and the FDIC's temporary guarantees for uninsured business deposits and bond issues have largely been wound down.The results of the most recent stress tests and capital planning evaluations continue to reflect improvement in banks' condition. For example, projected aggregate loan losses under this year's most stressful scenario (the so-called severely adverse scenario) were 7 percent lower than the comparable figure last year, in part because the riskiness of banks' portfolios continues to decline. The comparison of today's bank capital levels with those at the time of the SCAP is particularly striking. Over the past four years, the aggregate tier 1 common equity ratio of the 18 firms that underwent the recent tests has more than doubled, from 5.6 percent of risk-weighted assets at the end of 2008 to 1