ShareThank you. I am very pleased to be here among an audience of professional economists, which is certainly preferable to appearing before an audience of unprofessional economists. I like your kind! Your talents are needed now more than ever as we try to put the tools of the economic profession to work for the common good. It's easy to be an economist who looks back on crises and crashes and tries to explain why they happened, but much harder to be an economist whose efforts manage to help stop them from happening in the first place. Economic policymaking, at its best, reflects a continuous struggle to make sure that data and explanations of such data are consistent with real experience. If we're to engage in this struggle honestly, it's no easy task. It involves understanding not just the reliability and signal in various data, but also questioning whether the data accords with our understanding of actual experience. So, to get this right requires many different perspectives, not just on the data but on the underlying realities the data are trying to capture. Government economists understand that non-economists bring something valuable to the table in policymaking--a grounded perspective in what is happening in the economy.With that said, what is really happening now in the American economy? What do the economic data we see at the Federal Reserve currently show, and how do we think these data line up with the economic realities of most American households and businesses? In my remarks today I will offer my assessment of recent economic developments and the economic outlook, and I will discuss the actions that the Federal Reserve has been taking, in light of its view of developments and the outlook, to support the economic recovery. Before I begin, I should note that the views that I will be presenting are my own and not necessarily those of my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) or the Board of Governors.Recent Economic and Financial DevelopmentsFor the past three and a half years the U.S. economy has been in a recovery--albeit a very weak one--from a severe financial crisis and the deepest recession of the post-World War II period. The unemployment rate, which reached a high of 10 percent in the fall of 2009, has since come down 2-1/2 percentage points, to 7.5 percent in April.The increase in economic activity and the decline in the unemployment rate are, of course, welcome, but we still have a long way to go to reach what feels like a healthy economy. In fact, the pace of recovery has been slower than most had expected. The gap between actual output and the economy's potential remains quite large, according to estimates from the Congressional Budget Office, and the unemployment rate today remains well above levels seen prior to the recession, and well above the level that the Committee thinks can be sustained once a full recovery has been achieved. In addition, the number of long-term unemployed--people who have been unemployed for 27 weeks or more--remains historically high.My interpretation of the economic data that we have received over the past few quarters is that the recovery has continued to gain traction. The Bureau of Economic Analysis reported last month that real gross domestic product (GDP) rose at an annual rate of 2-1/2 percent in the first quarter of this year after barely expanding at all in the fourth quarter of 2012. The step-up in growth in the first quarter partly reflected a rebound from last year's drought and Hurricane Sandy. Smoothing through these factors, real GDP was about 1-3/4 percent above its year-earlier level in the first quarter, a modest gain that is about in line with the pace of growth during much of the recovery.The strength of the recovery among the components of GDP has been mixed recently. In terms of the housing sector, there is no question that many communities and neighborhoods were devastated by the effects of the financial crisis. Recently, we see that overall demand has been strengthening, with both home sales and prices rising markedly in many areas. Both new and existing home sales have moved up, on net, since late 2011, and housing starts averaged an annual rate of nearly 1 million units in the first quarter of this year, up considerably from the extremely low levels that prevailed through 201