Share Thank you, Claudia, and thanks to the American Economic Association and the American Finance Association for the opportunity to speak to you on a topic of growing interest to our profession and of great importance to understanding the causes and implications of the financial crisis.1Everyone here today, I'm sure, is familiar with the tumultuous events that introduced many Americans to the concept of systemic risk. To recap briefly, losses arising from leveraged investments caused a few important, but perhaps not essential, financial institutions to fail. At first, the damage appeared to be contained, but the resulting stresses revealed extensive interconnections among traditional banks, investment houses, and the rapidly growing and less regulated shadow banking sector. Market participants lost confidence in their trading partners, and, as the crisis unfolded, the financial sector struggled to cope with a massive withdrawal of liquidity, the collapse of one of its most prominent institutions, and a 40 percent drop in equity prices.2The effects of the crisis were felt far beyond the financial sector as credit dried up and a mild recession became something far worse. You are also, no doubt, familiar with the political response to that crisis. After considerable debate, the Congress passed sweeping reform legislation designed to place the nation's financial infrastructure on a more solid foundation.I'm referring, of course, to the banking panic of 1907. The legislation that President Wilson signed in December 1913 created the Federal Reserve, providing the nation with a lender of last resort to respond to such crises.3As we approach the centennial of the Federal Reserve System, it is striking how many of the challenges of that era remain with us today. In 1907, the correspondent banking networks that helped concentrate reserves in New York and other money centers also made the banking system highly interconnected. Today, our capability to monitor and model financial outcomes is vastly greater, and the tools available to the Federal Reserve are vastly more powerful, than the private capital and moral suasion that financier J. P. Morgan summoned in 1907 to stabilize the banks and trusts. But as we learned during the recent crisis, the financial system has also grown much larger and more complex, and our efforts to understand and influence it have, at best, only kept pace.Complex links among financial market participants and institutions are a hallmark of the modern global financial system. Across geographic and market boundaries, agents within the financial system engage in a diverse array of transactions and relationships that connect them to other participants. Indeed, much of the financial innovation that preceded the most recent financial crisis increased both the number and types of connections that linked borrowers and lenders in the economy. The rapid growth in securitization and derivatives markets prior to the crisis provides a stark example of this phenomenon. As shown infigure 1, between 2000 and 2007, the notional value of collateralized debt obligations outstanding increased from less than $300 billion to more than $