ShareThank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. I especially want to thank Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George for her leadership in the initiative that has brought us all together here today to discuss improvements to the U.S. payments system. We have a diverse group of professionals participating in this conference, from industry, academia, and government. It takes all of us, working together, to maintain and enhance a safe and secure payment system.The payment system touches our daily lives, whether it's a consumer paying a bill, a company deciding to upgrade its point-of-sale terminals, a technology startup developing a new peer-to-peer payment app, or the government issuing tax refunds. Americans make more than 120 billion noncash payments each year.1But it's only when something goes wrong, like a data breach at a major retailer or bank, that the typical end user takes notice of the payments process.As the central bank of the United States, the Federal Reserve plays many roles in the payment system, including payment system operator, supervisor of financial institutions and systemically important financial market utilities, regulator, researcher, and catalyst for improvement. Most of you are aware of our current efforts to improve the speed, efficiency, and security of our payment system. I'd like to discuss that project for a few minutes, and then talk about four things that we should all be doing to enhance payment security.For some years, members of the public have told us with increasing frequency and intensity that they see the United States falling behind other nations in the speed and security of our payment system. We hear all the time that the Federal Reserve should do something about this. But, despite our multiple roles, the Federal Reserve does not have broad authority to simply restructure or redesign the payment system. So, two years ago, the Fed published a consultation paper that sought public input on ways to make the U.S. payment system safer, more accessible, faster, and more efficient from end-to-end.2As we evaluated the substantial volume of public comment in response to the paper, the Fed also conducted research; met with a wide set of stakeholders, including banks, merchants, technology companies, consumer organizations, and others; and worked to enhance our own payment services.Building on this work, we released a second paper earlier this year, entitled "Strategies for Improving the U.S. Payment System."3This paper synthesizes a range of views and presents a multifaceted plan for collaborating with payment system stakeholders to enhance the speed, safety, and efficiency of the U.S. payment system. The paper emphasizes the need for a secure payment system that has the public's confidence and that keeps pace with the rapidly evolving and expanding threat environment.To facilitate cooperation among the many stakeholders, under the leadership of Esther George, we have established two task forces: one for faster payments and one for payment security. These task forces will work both independently and in concert. The security experts on the secure payments task force will advise members of the faster payments task force as they identify effective approaches for implementing faster payment capabilities. The secure payments task force also will advise the Fed on payment security matters, and determine areas of focus and priorities for future action to advance payment system safety, security, and resiliency.I am pleased to report that we are off to a great start in the months since the "Strategies for Improving the U.S. Payment System" paper was released. More than 300 participants from a range of stakeholders signed up to be part of the faster payments task force, and more than 200 joined the secure payments task force. These task forces have chosen, or are in the process of choosing, members to serve on their respective steering committees, which will help guide the task forces' efforts.Earlier this month, the faster payments steering committee met to begin developing timelines, processes, and criteria--including criteria related to security--that will be used to evaluate potential approaches to improving the speed of the payment system. Last week, the full task force met to continue the work. I am told that they had a great meeting--everyone was interested, engaged, and eager to get to work. The secure payments task force conducted its first organizing call earlier this month and, in mid-July, its steering committee will meet for the first time. Momentum is growing. By the end of next year, the plan is for the faster payments task force, with input from the secure payments task force, to have laid out its detailed thinking on the most effective approaches for implementing faster payments in the United States. Then, it will be up to the industry to implement these approaches.But, before we reach the finish line, the task forces will have to wrestle with some tough issues related to payment security. I would now like to talk about building a safer payment system. I'll start with two brief stories.First, let me take you back to the 1960s, when paper checks were the dominant noncash payment method and were sent by plane or truck to be cleared. A man walks into a bank with a payroll check. A teller cashes the check. A few days later, the man returns. The teller recognizes him, and is happy to cash more checks. The checks are fraudulent, but the teller doesn't know that. The man knows that the string of numbers encoded on the bottom of the check determine the geographic area where the check will be drawn. So he creates a fake check with a routing number that will send that paper check across the country. Because the teller recognizes the man when he comes back, the teller feels comfortable cashing the second round of checks because the first check has not yet been returned. By the time the bank realizes the checks are fraudulent, the man is gone. Some of you will recognize that man as Frank Abagnale, former con artist and now a security consultant.Now, fast-forward 50 years to 2013. A man walks up to an ATM with a prepaid debit card. He types in a PIN and withdraws a large amount of cash. But it's not just one man: there are many individuals doing the same thing at thousands of ATMs in dozens of countries. The cards are counterfeit, but no one has detected that yet. Over the course of ten hours, the individuals withdraw $40 million in cash. How does this happen? Before the thieves walk up to the ATMs, hackers break into a payment processor's database, steal a small number of prepaid card account numbers, and raise the cards' withdrawal limits. They then distribute counterfeit cards to "cashing crews" around the world who make the withdrawals.These well-known payment fraud schemes were perpetrated in different eras, and juxtaposing them highlights how the payment security landscape has changed. Frank Abagnale relied on the slow speed of the paper check-clearing system and in-person social engineering. In contrast, the ATM thieves relied on rapid transmission of data to remotely steal account information and alter withdrawal limits, all without interacting with bank employees. Today, fraud can be executed quickly, perpetrated on a massive scale, and carried out remotely.In light of this new environment, I will suggest four things that all of us ought to be doing with respect to payment security. Some are already being done. Too often, though, such efforts are overlooked or inconsistently applied.