Share Thank you for inviting me to join today's discussion. Like many of you, I have long been interested in the potential for innovation to improve financial access for families and small businesses who are underserved. The combination of smartphone apps, big data, artificial intelligence, and cloud technology holds out intriguing possibilities in financial services. But no single app is likely to be a silver bullet for the complex challenges faced by underserved households and small businesses. Achieving inclusion will require a holistic understanding of the challenges faced by underserved groups in order to develop full stack solutions to address them.1Fortunately, an emerging generation of metrics may offer a more complete picture of consumers' financial needs. In addition, technological infrastructure is developing, such as faster payment systems, along with the potential for more transparent and simpler product offerings enabled by richer data and lower-cost processing. These new building blocks may make a difference on their own--and, more importantly, may be combined in powerful ways to bring end-to-end solutions to financial inclusion. I will briefly discuss each of these developments in turn.Lessons from the First Wave Let's start with the basic question of how to measure financial inclusion in order to evaluate the impact of financial innovations and inclusion policies. The World Bank's Global Findex Database starts with a seemingly reasonable proxy for financial inclusion: access to financial accounts. Having access to basic transaction and savings accounts has been shown to be an important step to financial inclusion, particularly in developing countries. For instance, a 2013 experiment provided savings accounts to a random sample of market vendors in Kenya, most of whom were women. The vendors with accounts saved at a higher rate and invested 60 percent more in their businesses relative to those who did not have accounts.2Similarly, women-headed households in Nepal ultimately spent more on nutritious foods and education when they received free savings accounts relative to those who did not.3Using account access as a proxy for financial inclusion suggests substantial progress has been made. According to the Findex Database, over two-thirds of adults around the globe now have some form of financial account, up from roughly half just seven years ago.4This represents an increase of 800 million people. Here in the United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's (FDIC's) most recent survey of unbanked and underbanked households found that 7 percent of U.S. households in 2015 were "unbanked."5The unbanked rate was nearly a percentage point lower than the prior survey in 2013 and is lower than in earlier years. Even with this modest improvement, however, lower-income and minority households have substantially higher rates of being unbanked.The widespread adoption of mobile phones and the data they generate are expected to extend these gains even further. The World Bank noted, for instance, that about 