Share Watch Live Good morning. I want to thank the conference organizers for inviting me to speak to you today.1It is an honor and a pleasure to be part of this unique annual event that brings together bankers, bank supervisors, and researchers to discuss the latest community banking research, recent trends in community banking practices, and policy issues that are on the minds of conference attendees.I want to start, first, by conveying my own perspective on the importance of community banks. Community banks have a long history of providing essential financial services to households, small businesses, and small farms in communities across the United States. Their ability to effectively provide these services speaks to the strength of the community banking business model--that is, establishing and maintaining local relationships, and offering customers a face-to-face interaction with a local banker.And it is something I have observed firsthand, especially for community banks in rural communities. Growing up in rural Colorado and Utah, I saw the importance of community bankers having local knowledge and being personally invested in the same communities that they serve. That local knowledge, and the relationship-based lending that is the hallmark of community banking, can stem losses during downturns, as community banks may be able to work with borrowers to avoid losses. Indeed, research has shown that small business lending at small banks declined less severely than at large banks during the last recession.2At the same time, I have seen the challenges that many community banks face. I want to be careful not to overstate those challenges--to paraphrase Mark Twain, the reports of your demise are greatly exaggerated--and I believe that the community bank model has many advantages and will continue to play an integral role in our financial system.These sorts of dynamics are one reason that community banks are an important topic for research. As you probably know, this is the sixth annual community banking conference cosponsored by the Federal Reserve and the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (CSBS), and it is the first conference for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is joining as a cosponsor. The organizers of the inaugural conference decided that, rather than holding a traditional academic-style conference, they would invite bankers and bank supervisors to hear what the researchers had to say and to share their real-world experience with the researchers. The hope was that these interactions would prove beneficial to all three groups. The positive feedback that we have received from conference attendees over the past five years strongly supports the wisdom of the organizers' decision.Over time, the conference has evolved, with some new features introduced each year. The Case Study Competition, which is sponsored by the CSBS, introduces undergraduates to community banking and some of the challenges that community bankers face. The Emerging Scholars Program was also added to the conference a few years ago. This program is intended to support Ph.D. students who are considering or working on a dissertation on a banking-related topic and encourage them to develop a research agenda that focuses on community banking issues. I would like to congratulate this year's winning case study team, Eastern Kentucky University, and emerging scholars, Jiayi Xu, Cao Fang, and Flora Ma.Not All Community Banks Are the Same Turning to the topic of today's speech, it occurs to me that we often speak of community banks as though they are all pretty much the same. But, in reality, there is considerable heterogeneity within the group of firms that are commonly considered to be community banks.3One important dimension of diversity is size, which can range anywhere from less than $100 million in assets to around $10 billion in assets. As noted by Chairman Powell when he spoke at this conference two years ago, looking at community banks as a monolithic group masks some important differences between the smallest and largest community banking organizations.4For example, essentially all of the decline in the number of community banking organizations over the past two decades has taken place among those with assets less than $100 million. And these smallest banking organizations have consistently had a lower average rate of return on assets than their larger peers.Another significant aspect of diversity among community banks is the type of market served--urban versus rural. These two types of areas differ in many respects, including the age distribution of the population, the share of the population with a college degree, homeownership rates, poverty rates, and the share of the population with internet access.5And while the national population has been growing over the past 20 to 30 years, many rural areas have experienced population declines, and the share of the population living in rural areas has been falling.6Furthermore, since 2008, most job growth in the United States has occurred in urban areas.7Given these differing circumstances, it is not surprising that community banks operating in rural and urban areas tend to face different challenges. For example, the number of competitors faced by a banking organization tends to be larger in urban banking markets than in rural markets, while hiring and retaining high-quality employees can be more difficult in rural areas. And some observers have expressed concern about the implications of bank consolidation over the past two or three decades for access to banking services in rural areas while also wondering about the future viability of rural community banks.The number of community banks has been declining over the last 20 years, but community banks still account for more than 95 percent of banks operating in the United States. The decline has been roughly similar for urban and rural community banks, leaving the share of community banks that operate primarily in rural markets quite stable at just over 50 percent. While urban community banks are quite a bit larger than rural community banks on average, over the last 20 years, rural community banks have consistently earned higher rates of return on assets and rates of return on equity than their urban peers despite a more challenging economic environment.While the data present a compelling high-level picture, they do not tell the whole story. For example, averages across a large number of markets do not tell us what is going on in any individual market. In addition, much of the data that I am presenting today is aggregated to the county level, which obscures community-level dynamics: Some communities within a county may have lost banks or bank branches, while others may have gained. In the rural Mountain West, where I grew up, a single county can be physically larger than some Eastern states. And the demographics of the communities--for example, high- or low-income--that have lost or gained are also not visible, but important. Federal Reserve staff are engaged in efforts to further our understanding of the effects of losses of banks or bank branches on the people who live and work in the affected communities.National Trends in Urban versus Rural Community Banks over the Past 20 Years The number of banks in the United States fell by almost half over the past 20 years--from about 10,700 in 1997 to about 5,600 in 2017. About 97 percent of the decrease was accounted for by community banks. Looking at the trend in the number of urban and rural community banks (figure 1), we see that the number of banks in both of these categories has been falling over time. The rate of decline was steeper for rural banks than for urban banks before the financial crisis but has reversed in the post-crisis period. This reversal may be due to the fact that, as we will see momentarily, urban community banks suffered more severe losses in the immediate post-crisis period than did rural community banks. And the share of community banks that operate primarily in rural markets has increased slightly, from 53 percent to 54 percent.While there are more rural community banks than urban community banks, the latter consistently account for a larger volume of deposits, loans, and offices than the former. This difference is due, in part, to the average size of an urban community bank, in terms of total assets, being about two and a half to three and a half times that of the average rural community bank (figure 2). As community banks have increased in asset size, they have also grown their branch networks. The average number of branches for an urban bank is about 